# py-app-zip-image-sorter

## Description

This utility seamlessly extracts files from a zipped folder, placing them into a temporary buffer directory.

Subsequently, the utility organizes these files into sub-folders, each created based on the modification date of
the extracted files.

Finally, it individually compresses the contents of each sorted sub-folder into brand-new zip
archive files.

Note: This utility was initially crafted to organize backup zip files generated by MidJourney new website and convert
the output zip files into the older zip format utilized by the original MidJourney website.

## Install

This package requires Python 3.6 or later. and currently has no requirements outside the Python standard library.

# Utility Commands and Arguments

This utility is designed to unzip, sort, and archive files.
Below are the available command-line arguments along with their descriptions:

## Required Arguments

### `-i`, `--input`

- Description: Input file path that contains the zip files to process.

### `-o`, `--output`

- Description: Output file path where the utility will unzip the zip files.

## Optional Arguments

### `-u`, `--unzip`

- Description: Optional Temporary path where the zip files will be extracted. (Default: None)
- if not specified, the utility will create a temporary directory in the system's default temporary directory.

### `-s`, `--sort`

- Description: Optional Temporary path where the zip files will be sorted into sub-folders. (Default: None)
- if not specified, the utility will create a temporary directory in the system's default temporary directory.

### `-f`, `--format`

- Description: The naming format for the zip archive files.
- You can use placeholders `{date_format}` and `{file_count}` (Default: "archive_{date_format}_[{file_count}].zip").
    - Where:
        - `{date_format}`: The date format to use for the zip file name. (Default: "%Y-%m-%d")
        - `{file_count}`: The number of files in the zip archive.

### `-d`, `--date`

- Description: The date format to use for the zip file name. (Default: "%Y-%m-%d")
    - Note: this argument defines the date format for the `{date_format}` placeholder in the `--format` argument.
    - You can use any valid date format string.
        - (See: https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes)
    - Where:
        - `%Y`: Year with century as a decimal number.
        - `%m`: Month as a zero-padded decimal number.
        - `%d`: Day of the month as a zero-padded decimal number.

### `--log`

- Description: Set the level of logging for the utility. (Default: 'INFO')
- Choices: ['DEBUG', 'INFO', 'WARNING', 'ERROR', 'CRITICAL']

## Example Usage

Here's an example of how to use the utility with the provided arguments:

```bash
python zip_sort_zip.py -i input_folder -o output_folder"
```
